From: "Snake" <nick_summerNO@SPAMhotmailDOT.com>
Subject: The 2002 Socal Xmas trip report [long long long]
Date: Saturday, December 28, 2002 10:34 PM

I'm baaaaack.

Those of you who know my smiling (type)face could infer that from the flood of smart-aleck posts I've made today.  Those of you who don't, well, there might be something for you here anyway.

Anyway, we flew down to Salbaland for Christmas week, specifically, Riverside California, to visit my father-in-law, and I took a bag of boards along in hopes of hitting a few key parks.  Despite some setbacks (Rain, the flu, plus all of the folks I planned to go skating with being unavailable for various reasons), mission accomplished.  Here is my report.

Friday, 12-20  [the arrival]

Arrived at Ontario airport in the evening, chowed with the inlaws, bivvied down for the night.

Saturday, 12-21 [porcelain bowls from hell]

Rain!  Not only is it raining this morning, but the weather report says that this storm is supposed to last a few days, and there's another storm heading in.

The family are heading to the mall to do last-minute shopping.  Oh wait, not the regular mall...  they're going to Ontario Mills mall, home of Vans Ontario (http://www.concretedisciples.com/cd_skate/socal/vansontario/vansontario.php).  It's raining, and we're going there anyway, so the skate bag goes in the car.

Got there at about 11:50, so I hung around with the family for a few and cruised back in time for the 12:15 session.  12 bucks for 2 hours seems like a lot of money considering I usually skate for free, but Vans has a good rep, and I can't complain seeing as how Washington has been socked in with rain for a month solid.

3 pools - nice :-).  I liked the look of the blue figure 8 pool (http://www.sk8parklist.com/img/ca_ont_vans_fig8.jpg), even though it's pretty small, so I jump in (too steep for me to drop the first time, even in the shallow end - 4 or 5 feet and about a foot of vert, perhaps?), and take a roll into the deep end.

...and promptly land on my ass and slide across the bottom.  Holy bejeezus, I have ***NO*** idea how anybody skates this thing.  I've got 92 durometer NoSkoolz, and I'm slipping all over this thing like it's an ice pond.  I feel the surface, and it seems to be some sort of ceramic - it looks like a porcelain finish, and to top it off, there's dust covering everything.  So, I take a different tack, start taking really straight lines right down the fall line, half-piping the bowl.  Basically takes the fun out of it.  There's no way I can carve with a frictionless environment.  I'm basically too sketched out to go for it at all.  Other guys were ripping it up, so I guess you learn to deal with it after a while...

I tried the kiddie bowl (at the top of this picture: http://www.rcmcsk8parks.com/html/index_copy(29).htm).  Some seriously freaky transitions there, but I can sort of ride it.  It's way too tight for my Deathbox, but I could grind the "deep end", and I could roll in and cruise back and forth.  for some reason, they made this out of something with a little more tooth, so it wasn't as sketchy as the rest of the "crete".  Maybe it just wasn't ridden as much...

For bowlriding, I spent most of my time in the snake run/large bowl (http://www.rcmcsk8parks.com/html/index_copy(33).htm).  The snake run starts out with a really tight narrow chasm, and works its way into a nicely skateable section which reminded me of the back section of Reseda Skatercross (http://www.toysrbob.com/oldreseda.html).  Did I say skateable?  Well, it would have been, were it not for the same ceramic coating and dust combination which wiped me out in the blue pool.  Well, it wasn't quite so bad as the blue pool, so I put up with it, including learning to ride a line that included a rather sickening slide in order to get the angle I wanted in the middle of the snake.  No edge tricks here, though - no slashing was possible, again due to the slipperiness factor.  The big bowl was pretty nice, if slippery, and I worked it until my thighs ached.  it's like an 8(?) foot bowl, I think, which is bigger than I'm used to, and goes to vert, which I'm also not used to, so try as I might, I wasn't quite hitting coping.  Again, if it weren't for the damn slippery dust...  I have to say that I loved the transitions in that bowl - it was the most comfortable ride into vert that I'd had in recent years.

I was wiping my wheels on my shirt after every run to try to kep the dust factor down, but it didn't help more than a little, so I attacked the wood stuff for a while.  They just ripped out the entire wood section of the park and redid it last week, so it's nothing like the pictures.  I liked it pretty well - some nice high banks to do bert reverts on (which had the kids whoo-hooing).  The flat stuff was all made of real plywood, which meant no slip problem, which was a relief.  The curvy bits were masonite, which was new and therefore still had some grip to it, so I didn't have the huge confidence problem there that I had in the Porcelain Bowls From Hell [tm].

I did my best work in the 6' spined mini - a very nice piece of terrain.  I can't transfer over a spine yet, but luckily there was one edge that had a tombstone at one end and a low bump in the middle instead of the spine, so I could get across there.  I was having fun frontside grinding, tailblocking, and rock and rolling here - basically the only place in the park where I could do coping tricks.  I was sorry that the micro mini was gone, since I was looking forward to working on my 50-50s...

Sunday 12-22 [guerilla skate day]

Despite the fact that it's supposed to rain straight through the week, I get up and find sunshine and dry crete.  I grab my board and my father in law's car and head out to find the Riverside park before the day's family activities.

Riverside (http://www.concretedisciples.com/cd_skate/socal/riverside/riverside.php) reminds me of the parks I usually skate in Washington, although it's a lot smaller.  For a little street park, it's got plenty of flow, and I managed to have a lot of fun.  When I got there, it was locked up, with a sign saying it opened at 10.  Well, it was 8 AM, so I was SOL.  Or was I?  There were two kids hiding down in the bowls when I arrived, but when they saw I wasn't a cop, they came out with bikes and started riding around.  I looked at the 10 foot fence and scratched my head.   They showed me the spot where the fence was cut. Cool.  Reminded my of my glory days riding at Brentwood school.

Various kids showed up, and by 9 there was a small crowd of very cool preteeners cruising around.  Everyone was cool and made room for everyone else to skate.  They admired my oldschool moves (line of the week: "hey Kevin, this fool can do kickflips the way they used to do it before the ollie was invented! Check it!"), and they showed me some inspired screwing around.  In many ways it was a better session than Vans.

One of the kids had a toy walkie talkie that he was using to keep in touch with a couple of friends who were keeping tabs on the cops so that we wouldn't get busted.  High-tech - I had to give those kids props.

Some of the kids there were dropped off by their parents.  Some of the parents parked in the parking lot and read while their kids trespassed.  I loved it.

Monday 12-23 [Old school networking day]

This was the day I'd set up to skate with my friend Frank who I learned to skate with back in '75, and I'd also hoped to hook up with Oldchoolsk8.  Unfortunately, Oldschool had to work, and Frank had to clean up from his huge Xmas party the day before, so I figured I'd go skate by myself anyway.  I was the only day I had blocked out to go skate all day, and had arranged to use my father in law's car.

The night before, my father-in-law's wife(not my wife's mother, so I think of her as a double in-law)'s car stopped running, which meant that if I took FIL's car, they would be left with nothing.  Crap.  So, 8 AM, off to the rental car place to get a car for the day.  $40 bucks for a day?  You gotta be kidding me?  Christmas week, yadda yadda.  Nothing for it but to pay the ripoff artists and get on my way.

Got to Fontana (http://www.concretedisciples.com/cd_skate/socal/fontana/fontana.php) about 9:45.  I had thought they opened at 10 but nope, they opened at 9, so I went right in.  Wow, now *this* is a skatepark.  I will set it down in bytes right here folks - this is my new favorite park.   A very nice set of gradations from absolute beginner level stuff to the clover bowl, and you can pretty much flow from one part of the park all the way through to the rest.  The exception was the bowl, which had the standard set of old guys sitting around talking about surfing last week and skating back in the day, and taking lines and giving each other tips and props and taking pictures for one another.  I split my time between here (http://www.sk8parklist.com/img/ca_font_MIDBOWLseries.jpg) and here (http://www.concretedisciples.com/cd_skate/socal/fontana/fontana_opt.jpg / http://www.sk8parklist.com/img/ca_font_BIGBOWLseries.jpg).  Everyone was super-cool and supportive.   It was windy, so some lines were killed by headwinds, but otherwise, it was a perfect day.  I skated there for about 2 hours.  The bowls were awesome, and by the end of the day I was hitting my standard set of moves in the shallow end, and cruising around closer than usual to coping in the deeper ends.

There were a couple of amazing kids there.  One kid couldn't have been more than 14, and was absolutely tearing up the bowl.  I guess he skates there daily.  His face is beat up like he's fallen on it more than once.  Another kid there was a double amputee (both legs), and was absolutely ripping the smaller bowl area, basically sitting on his thighs on the board.

I was feeling pretty tired, but I was determined to skate Upland before I left Cali, and this was my one chance, so I cruised up there.  

Holy Fsck.

Pictures cannot prepare you for this park (http://www.concretedisciples.com/cd_skate/socal/upland/upland.php).  I got there and watched for a while, and then I tried it out.  I felt like *such* a poser, *such* a grom.  I basically stammered and made self-deprecating remarks to the two other guys there who were shredding.  I could drop into the shallow bowl at the top without a problem, work the little bowl there, but when it came time to drop down the waterfall into the halfpipe I nearly soiled my pants.  Basically, you're going from a 4 or 5 foot bowl into a 12 foot halfpipe (see http://www.concretedisciples.com/cd_skate/socal/upland/upland1_opt.jpg - it doesn't look that impressive until you pay attention to the size of the two guys standing on the edge) with 2 or 3 feet of vert, and the waterfall from one to the other is designed to give you enough speed to hit the top of the half pipe, which I wasn't prepared to do.   The only option other than to cruise up the halfpipe wall was to go straight down the bottom of the halfpipe, through the full pipe, into the immense bowl at the end, which is a downhill run.  So, I would work the shallow bowl for a bit, then let myself come to a stop, roll very wimpily and slowly over the edge, and then try to carve the first wall of the halfpipe so that I could work my way down through the rest of it.  Once I got past the waterfall, things were fine.  I didn't go very high anywhere, but it was so buttery smooth, and the transitions were so unbelievably perfect, and there was never any problem keeping speed, even coming back uphill.  The pipe is so sweet to ride - this was my first time in a full pipe.  I didn't even pay attention to where I was, but I'm sure I wasn't even to vert, let alone over it.

I really wish there had been a better line for me into the halfpipe, 'cause I would have ridden it way more.  As it was, I felt so embarassed about my wimpy little roll-ins that I only took 3 runs, and then stood around and talked with the other guys for a while until I felt like a complete poser and then left.  This is probably the first time I've been to a park that made me question my worth as a skater.  It actually demotivated me.  I'll have to go back in a year or so when my vert chops are better and I'm ready to feel confident on the big stuff.

On the plus side, one of the guys there was very informative.  I learned a lot about Baldy (apparently it's an automatic bust these days, and the only ways to skate it are to get dropped off, or to rappel down from the top), and about the Ameron pipe company in Ontario that has pipes.  This guy worked for a contractor that was storing several pipes, so he had his own private fullpipe playground.  He also told us about several pools in the area.  If I had only had more time, I would have gone adventuring...

Tuesday 12-24 and forward [the flu]

Felt like crap all night and had the squirts.  These will continue beyond all reason for the rest of the week, and I won't feel good enough to skate until the day before we leave.  Apparently half of the people at Frank's party on Sunday came down with some variation on this.  My daughter gets it and does a lovely projectile vomiting trick in the parking lot at Target on Thursday.

Saw lots of little ghetto skate spots.  There are ditches all over - we drove to San Diego, and there was a ditch which looked like a perfect halfpipe with a bit of flatbottom.  I couldn't believe my eyes.  If the digital camera wasn't on the fritz, I'd have proof.  In Fontana, there's a skateable ditch right off the freeway going to the the park.  At Castle Park (mini-golf and ride park in Riverside), they drained one of their fountains, and it's a great little skate bowl.  Terrain terrain everywhere and I'm feeling like crap!

Phew, I think that's it.  I'll post more later if I forgot anything, but I hope to hell I didn't.  Oh, on our last day, I was practicing 360 shove-its on the grass and almost getting them.  A step up from doing them on carpet on a board with no trucks!

L8r

-- 
snake
In search of a perfect software girl - nice features and no bugs


 